The Project Gutenberg eBook of Cottage Cheese Recipe Book
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Cottage Cheese Recipe Book

Creator: Milk Industry Foundation

Release date: May 13, 2021 [eBook #65327]

Language: English

Credits: Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COTTAGE CHEESE RECIPE BOOK ***




                      _Cottage Cheese Recipe Book_


                              _Appetizers_
                                _Salads_
                           _Salad Dressings_
                                _Breads_
                             _Main Dishes_
                               _Desserts_

                            _Borden Company_




                  _Nutritive Value of Cottage Cheese_


Cottage cheese is a concentrated form of milk. One pound of cottage
cheese contains most of the protein, calcium, phosphorous, iron, and
vitamins found in three quarts of milk.

Three ounces of cottage cheese furnishes about 50% of an adult’s daily
requirement for calcium.

Cottage cheese is a complete protein (builds, repairs, and maintains
body tissue); therefore, it is particularly desirable for growing
children and is an ideal food for adults.

Cottage cheese is easily digested and readily assimilated. It is an
important food for the person desiring to lose weight because of its
high nutritive value and low caloric content. One ounce of creamed
cottage cheese supplies about 30 calories.

In addition to its concentrated food value, cottage cheese is also a
very versatile food. It can be served in a variety of tempting ways
because it combines nicely with almost any type of food.

    [Illustration: WHAT BECOMES OF THE MILK DISTRIBUTOR’S DOLLAR]

 SALARIES & WAGES                                                    .2080
    Cost of Raw Milk delivered at the plant                 .5146[1]
    Other Material Costs—cream, skim milk, chocolate, etc.  .1039
 MATERIAL COSTS                                                      .6185
 INSURANCE, DEPRECIATION & ALL OTHER EXPENSE                         .0304
 CONTAINERS, BOTTLES, CANS, ETC.                                     .0405
 PLANT DELIVERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES                                    .0525
 TAXES & LICENSES                                                    .0217
 ADVERTISING                                                         .0078
 NET OPER. PROFIT                                                    .0206[2]

Chart shows operating results of 313 distributing companies in 42
states, the District of Columbia and Hawaii with combined sales of
$1,014,915,023 in 1949. Averages are from figures submitted to the
Indiana University School of Business for the Milk Industry Foundation.


[1](includes .0138 paid by 73 firms for transaction which was not
    deducted from the amount paid the producer)

[2]This is about ⅖ of a cent a quart.




                          _Table of Contents_


                                                                    Page
  Nutritive value of Cottage Cheese                                    1
  Appetizers                                                           5
  Salads                                                               7
  Salad Dressings                                                     13
  Breads                                                              14
  Main Dishes                                                         16
  Desserts                                                            25




                              _Appetizers_


                         _Cottage Cheese Rolls_

  1 cup cottage cheese
  ½ teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  2 tablespoons chili sauce
  Salt and pepper
  12 slices dried beef

Mix cheese, sauces, and seasonings. Spread on beef, roll and fasten with
toothpicks.


                        _Cottage Canape Spread_

  2 cups sieved cottage cheese
  1 tablespoon bouillon paste
  few drops onion juice

Drain excess moisture from cottage cheese and force through fine sieve.
Combine with bouillon paste and onion juice and beat vigorously to
blend. Chill until ready to use. Use as a spread on crisp wafers.


                        _Cheese and Jelly Tray_

  1 pound cream-style cottage cheese
  Toasted crackers

Choice of one or more of the following:

  Raspberry jam
  Strawberry preserves
  Currant jelly
  Orange marmalade

Drain off excess moisture from cheese and put through a fine sieve or
whip until smooth. Pile in a serving dish. In a similar dish or dishes
unmold the jelly or jam, and place on one side of a round or square
tray. Arrange rows of over-lapping toasted crackers on the other side of
tray and serve while crackers are still warm.


                        _Fluffy Cottage Cheese_

  1 cup sieved cottage cheese
  ¼ cup sour cream
  Salt and pepper

Mix cheese and sour cream lightly together, just enough to blend. Season
to taste. (More elaborate seasonings for cottage cheese are caraway and
poppy seeds, garlic and onion salts, and herbs.) Serve as a dip for
potato chips.


                             _Avocado Dunk_

  1 cup sieved cottage cheese
  Salt and pepper
  Pickle relish
  Horseradish
  1 Avocado, mashed
  Grated onion
  Cream or mayonnaise

Blend cottage cheese well with mashed avocado and seasoning. Thin with
cream or mayonnaise. Serve as a dip for potato chips.


                        _Cottage Cheese Spreads_

Combine cottage cheese, anchovies, paprika, and a dash of cayenne. Serve
on tiny crackers.

Mix flaked salmon or tuna, lemon juice, olives and/or pickles, minced
parsley and blue cheese; serve on rye bread.

Combine cottage cheese, chopped salted peanuts, and mayonnaise. Spread
on crackers.

Combine ground dried beef, grated onion, and pickles with cottage
cheese. Serve on crackers.


                            _Stuffed Celery_

Fill crisp stalks of celery with cottage cheese. Arrange them petal
fashion on a round chop plate, and fill the center with olives.




                                _Salads_


                      _Cheese and Lettuce Roll-Up_

  1 cup cottage cheese
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ½ cup chopped stuffed olives
  ½ cup walnut meats
  Mayonnaise to moisten

Roll a spoonful of the mixture in a large, crisp lettuce leaf; slip a
ring of green pepper around the center to hold it closed. Chill, then
serve with garnish of tomato wedges and cucumber slices. Enough filling
for 6 rolls.


                           _Two-Decker Salad_


                               LIME LAYER

  2 packages lime-flavored gelatin
  3 cups hot water
  1½ pounds cottage cheese, well drained
  1 tablespoon chopped onion
  1 tablespoon vinegar or lemon juice
  ¼ cup horseradish
  2 tablespoons mayonnaise

Dissolve gelatine in hot water. Chill until partially set. Beat until
light. Stir in remaining ingredients. Pour into 2½ quart mold which has
been rinsed in cold water. Chill until set.


                              TOMATO LAYER

  4 cups fresh-cooked (or canned) tomatoes
  ⅓ cup chopped onion
  ¼ cup chopped celery leaves
  1 bay leaf
  2 whole cloves
  1 teaspoon salt
  2 tablespoons brown sugar
  2 tablespoons (2 envelopes) unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  3 tablespoons lemon juice
  2 hard-cooked eggs, sliced

Combine tomatoes, onion, celery leaves, bay leaf, cloves, salt and
sugar. Simmer 20 minutes; strain. There should be 3⅓ cups. Soften
gelatin in cold water, dissolve in hot tomato mixture. Add lemon juice.
Dip egg slices in gelatin and arrange against side of mold. Chill until
set. Pour in gelatin mixture; chill until firm. Unmold. Garnish plate
with endive. Top mold with flower of green pepper petals. Serves 12.


                         _Deviled Cottage Eggs_

  4 hard-cooked eggs, shelled
  ¼ teaspoon dry mustard
  2 teaspoons vinegar
  1 tablespoon chopped olives
  1 tablespoon pickle relish
  ½ to ¾ cups cottage cheese with chive
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper

Cut eggs in half lengthwise, remove yolks. Mash yolks; add mustard,
vinegar, chopped olives and relish. Add cottage cheese, mix well; season
with salt and pepper. Refill egg whites with mixture, piling it high.
Sprinkle with paprika, if desired. Serve in lettuce cups.


                      _Cottage Cheese Salad Ring_

  2 tablespoons plain, unflavored gelatin
  ½ cup cold water
  2 pounds cottage cheese
  1 cup cream or top milk
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  1 teaspoon onion juice
  ¼ teaspoon paprika
  Salt to taste

Soften gelatin in cold water; dissolve over hot water. Mix cottage
cheese, cream, lemon juice, onion juice, paprika, and salt; add
dissolved gelatin. Turn into a ring mold that has been rinsed with cold
water; chill until firm. Unmold on crisp salad greens and fill center of
ring with desired fruit or vegetable salad. Serve with mayonnaise or
French dressing. Serves 8.


                            _Avocado Salad_

Peel the avocados, cut each in half lengthwise and remove the pits. For
each serving place half of an avocado on curly endive, fill the center
with cottage cheese to which has been added some tart French dressing.


                    _Cottage Cheese-Filled Tomatoes_

  6 medium tomatoes
  2 cups dry cottage cheese
  ¼ cup mayonnaise or salad dressing
  3 tablespoons chopped pickle
  1 tablespoon minced onion
  3 tablespoons chopped pimiento
  3 tablespoons chopped walnut meats

Peel tomatoes; cut slices from top and scoop out center. Sprinkle with
salt; invert to chill. Combine remaining ingredients and mix well; fill
tomato cups. Chill thoroughly. Serve on lettuce with additional
mayonnaise. Serves 6.


                     _Cottage Cheese-Potato Salad_

  3 cups cooked diced potatoes
  ½ cup sliced celery
  1 tablespoon chopped green pepper
  1 tablespoon chopped pimiento
  2 tablespoons minced onion
  2 tablespoons chopped pickle
  1 cup mayonnaise
  1 teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper
  1 teaspoon dry mustard
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  1 cup creamy cottage cheese

Combine potatoes, celery, green pepper, pimiento, onion, and pickle.
Chill. Blend mayonnaise, seasonings, and lemon juice. Pour over potato
mixture; add cottage cheese and toss lightly. Serves 6 to 8. A super
picnic salad!


                          _Chive Cheese Mold_

  1 package lemon-flavored gelatin
  1 cup hot water
  1 cup cold water
  ½ large avocado
  1 cup chive cottage cheese
  6 tablespoons mayonnaise
  ⅓ cup chopped pecan meats

Dissolve flavored gelatin in hot water. Add cold water. Chill until
syrupy. Mash avocado; mix with cottage cheese, mayonnaise, and nut
meats, and add to thickened gelatin. Pour into mold and chill. Garnish
with orange slices or segments. Serves 6.


                         _Gingerale Fruit Mold_

  1 cup hot water
  1 package lemon flavored gelatin
  ¾ cup gingerale
  1 cup fruit cocktail, drained
  juice of ½ lemon


                                FILLING

  1 cup cottage cheese
  ¼ cup pecans
  4 maraschino cherries, sliced
  1 tablespoon cream
  1 tablespoon mayonnaise

Stir hot water into gelatin until dissolved. Chill until cool but not
thickened. Stir gingerale, fruit cocktail and lemon juice into cooled
gelatin; pour into ring mold rinsed in cold water. Chill until firm. At
serving time, combine cottage cheese, pecans, cherries, cream and
mayonnaise. Unmold fruit gelatin ring; fill center with cottage cheese
mixture. Serves 6.


                          _Cranberry Blizzard_

  1 pound whole cranberries
  2 cups water
  2 cups granulated sugar
  2 tablespoons plain gelatin
  ½ cup cold water

Boil cranberries in 2 cups water 5 minutes. Stir in sugar; boil 5
minutes longer. Soften gelatin in ½ cup cold water; dissolve in hot
cranberries. Pour into oiled 8-inch ring mold. Chill overnight. Unmold
on large salad plate; garnish with crisp lettuce. Pile creamy cottage
cheese in center of ring. This recipe is grand for buffet suppers, with
chicken or turkey. Serves 8.


                  _Frozen Cheese and Pineapple Salad_

  1½ cups cottage cheese
  ¾ cup whipping cream
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ¾ cup drained, shredded pineapple
  ½ cup finely sliced dates
  ¼ cup mayonnaise, or salad dressing
  3 tablespoons lemon juice

Drain off excess moisture from cheese and beat with a fork or electric
mixer until smooth. Whip cream until stiff, then fold in cheese. Add
seasonings, well-drained pineapple, and dates; pour into a waxed
paper-lined freezing tray of the refrigerator. Freeze at coldest
temperature. Cut into slices, arrange on salad greens, and serve with
additional dressing. (Allow about three hours for freezing salad.)
Serves 6. Serve with nut bread and butter sandwiches for Dessert Bridge.


                 _Cottage Cheese and Strawberry Salad_

  2 cups cottage cheese
  2 cups sliced strawberries
  3 tablespoons honey French dressing


                                DRESSING

  ⅓ cup salad oil
  3 tablespoons lemon juice
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ⅓ cup strained honey

Beat together the oil, lemon juice, and salt. Add honey slowly while
beating. Mix cottage cheese, strawberries, and French dressing. Put on
lettuce leaves. Garnish with mayonnaise and whole strawberry.


                          _Molded Fruit Salad_

  1 package lemon-flavored gelatin
  1 cup hot water
  ½ cup creamy cottage cheese
  1 cup heavy cream, whipped
  ½ cup broken walnut meats
  ½ cup maraschino cherries, quartered
  1 cup crushed pineapple, well drained

Dissolve gelatin in hot water. Chill until partially set. Fold in
cottage cheese and whipped cream, walnuts, cherries and pineapple. Pour
into 1-quart refrigerator tray. Chill until firm. Cut in squares to
serve. Serves 8. Delicious as salad or dessert!


                           _Peach Party Loaf_

  2 packages lemon-flavored gelatin
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1 cup hot canned peach syrup
  1½ cups hot grapefruit juice
  1½ cups drained sliced canned cling peaches
  2 tablespoons chopped pimiento
  1¼ cups cottage cheese
  ½ cup chopped celery
  2 tablespoons chopped parsley
  1½ teaspoons grated onion
  ½ teaspoon salt
  Salad greens

Dissolve gelatin and ¼ teaspoon salt in hot syrup and fruit juice. Cool
until slightly thickened. Arrange peaches and pimiento in bottom of
oiled 9x5x3-inch loaf pan and cover with half the gelatin mixture. Chill
until firm. Add cottage cheese, celery, parsley, onion, and ½ teaspoon
salt to remaining gelatin and blend. Turn into pan over firm peach
layer. Chill until firm. Unmold on crisp greens. Serve in slices. Makes
8 to 10 servings.


                         _Cottage Cheese Ring_

  1 tablespoon unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  1½ cups cottage cheese
  2½ tablespoons Roquefort cheese
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon paprika
  ½ cup heavy cream, whipped
  Fruit salad

Soften gelatin in cold water; dissolve over hot water. Press cottage and
Roquefort cheese through sieve and mix thoroughly with gelatin, salt and
paprika. Fold in whipped cream. Pour into ring mold and chill until
firm. Unmold and fill center with fruit salad. Serve with mayonnaise
mixed with whipped cream. Serves 6.




                           _Salad Dressings_


                       _Cottage Cheese Dressing_

  1 cup cottage cheese
  2 tablespoons mayonnaise
  ¼ teaspoon paprika
  1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  Salt and pepper to taste

Combine all ingredients and blend well. Makes about 1 cup dressing.


                    _Cottage Cheese-Fruit Dressing_

  ½ cup cottage cheese
  ½ cup cream
  ½ cup lemon juice
  ½ teaspoon salt
  1 tablespoon honey or sugar
  1 tablespoon chopped chives
  Dash paprika

Beat all ingredients together until smooth. Makes 1⅓ cups.


                  _Cottage Cheese-Vegetable Dressing_

  1 cup cottage cheese
  2 tablespoons vinegar
  3 tablespoons sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon paprika
  ¼ teaspoon prepared mustard
  4 tablespoons catsup

Combine all ingredients, blend well.




                                _Breads_


                           _Cottage Pancakes_

  1 cup sifted flour
  1 teaspoon baking powder
  ½ teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon sugar
  2 egg yolks, slightly beaten
  1 cup milk
  2 tablespoons melted butter
  2 egg whites, stiffly beaten

Sift flour once, measure, add baking powder, salt and sugar, and sift
again. Combine egg yolks and milk. Add gradually to flour mixture,
beating only until smooth. Add shortening. Fold in egg whites. Bake on
hot greased griddle. Spread with creamy cottage cheese, topped with
strawberry preserves.


                         _Filled Cheese Rolls_

  1 cake fresh yeast
  ¼ cup lukewarm water
  ¾ cup milk
  2 tablespoons butter
  ¼ cup sugar
  1 teaspoon salt
  1 egg, beaten
  3 cups sifted all-purpose flour


                                FILLING

  1 cup cottage cheese
  ½ cup peanut butter, crunch style

Soften yeast in lukewarm water. Heat milk to boiling point; remove from
heat and add butter, sugar, and salt. Cool to lukewarm; add yeast and
egg. Stir in flour, making a soft dough. Knead until satiny; place in a
bowl and cover with a damp cloth. Allow to rise until doubled in size,
about 1 to 1½ hours. Punch dough down and let it rest 10 minutes before
rolling out ¼ inch thick. Spread with filling; roll it up as for jelly
roll, and cut off 1-inch slices. Place cut side down on greased baking
sheet 1 inch apart. Cover, let rise until light. Bake in hot oven (400°
F.) 15 to 20 minutes.


                       _Cottage Cheese Blintzes_


                                 BATTER

  2 eggs
  1 cup water
  Dash of salt
  4 tablespoons flour

Beat two eggs. Add water and salt. Pour into flour slowly, stirring
vigorously to obtain a smooth, thin batter. Pour about one tablespoon of
batter into a small slightly greased frying pan, spreading very thin
over the entire bottom. Cook over low heat on one side only, until it
will hold its shape, but does not brown. Turn out on cloth or paper and
repeat with the rest of the batter.


                                FILLING

  1 egg
  1½ cups cottage cheese
  1 tablespoon melted butter
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon sugar
  ¼ teaspoon cinnamon
  ¼ cup raisins (if desired)

Beat egg well. Add cottage cheese, melted butter, and seasoning. If
desired, ¼ cup raisins. Place 1 heaping tablespoon of the cheese mixture
on each blintze. Fold the edges over the filling and press in well. Cook
in butter until brown on both sides. Serve with sour cream.


                        _Cottage Cheese Crisps_

  1 cup sifted all-purpose flour
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon baking powder
  ⅓ cup butter or substitute
  1 tablespoon milk
  ½ cup cottage cheese
  Paprika
  ½ teaspoon celery seed (optional)

Sift together flour, salt, and baking powder. Cut in butter. Add milk to
cottage cheese, then stir into flour mixture. Round dough upon floured
board and roll it to ⅛-inch thickness. Cut into ½-inch strips. Place
strips on baking sheet and brush with milk; sprinkle with paprika and
celery seed. Bake in hot oven (425° F.) 10 to 12 minutes until lightly
browned.




                             _Main Dishes_


                         _Cottage Cheese Loaf_

  2 cups cooked lima beans (drain thoroughly)
  1½ pounds cottage cheese
  1 small can pimientos
  1 cup bread crumbs
  1 teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon pepper
  1 can condensed tomato soup

Put beans, cottage cheese and pimientos through a meat chopper, using
coarse blade. Mix well. Add bread crumbs and seasonings and form into a
roll. Bake in slightly greased pan, uncovered at 350° F., for about 30
minutes. Heat the tomato soup, pour over the loaf and bake about 15
minutes longer. Slice and serve with the tomato sauce.


                             _Mushroom Pie_

  2 tablespoons butter
  ¼ cup diced onion
  2 cups hot cooked potatoes
  1 3-oz. can chopped broiled mushrooms
  1 pound creamed cottage cheese
  ½ cup sour cream
  1 teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper
  ½ teaspoon gravy maker
  2 eggs, well beaten
  1 9-inch pastry shell, unbaked

Melt butter in small saucepan. Add onion and cook over moderate heat
five minutes, stirring occasionally. Meanwhile, cook and sieve potatoes.
Stir in mushrooms, cheese, sour cream, salt, pepper, gravy maker and
onions. Mix thoroughly. Fold in beaten eggs. Pour into unbaked shell.
Bake at 375° F., about one hour, or until puffy and brown. Serve hot as
main dish.


                      _Baked Macaroni and Cheese_

  ½ cup sliced green onions
  ¼ cup butter or cooking fat
  2 cups cooked macaroni
  2 cups cottage cheese
  2 tablespoons minced pimiento (optional)
  2 cups milk
  4 eggs, beaten slightly
  Salt, pepper, celery seed to taste
  1 cup ripe olives, seeded
  ½ cup minced parsley

Saute onions until soft, but not brown. Combine with all remaining
ingredients and pour into deep, bright pottery casserole. Bake an hour
at 350° F. Garnish top with paprika before serving.


                      _French Cottage Cheese Pie_

  1 unbaked 9-inch pie shell
  2 cups cottage cheese
  3¼ cups sour cream
  2 cups hot mashed potatoes
  1 teaspoon salt
  3 tablespoons finely chopped onion
  3 tablespoons chopped pimiento
  2 eggs, well beaten
  1½ tablespoons butter

Blend cottage cheese and sour cream together. Beat in mashed potatoes.
Mix thoroughly. Add salt, onion, pimiento. Fold in beaten eggs. Pour
into unbaked pie shell, dot with butter. Bake in moderate oven (350° F.)
1¼ hours, until golden brown. Serve hot as main dish. (Many French
families like this pie cold, with mixed green salad and a hot soup.)


            _Curried Cottage Cheese and Eggs in Rice Nests_

  2 tablespoons butter
  2 tablespoons flour
  ¾ cup milk
  1 teaspoon curry powder
  ½ teaspoon onion juice
  1½ cups cottage cheese
  Salt and pepper
  6 hard-cooked eggs
  Hot boiled rice

Melt butter in a double boiler. Add flour and mix well. Add milk
gradually and cook, stirring constantly, until thickened. Add curry
powder, onion juice, cottage cheese, and salt and pepper to taste. Fold
in the diced eggs, reserving six slices for garnish. Reheat. Serve on
nests of rice. Serves 6.


                        _Tuna-Cheese Pinwheels_

1 batch biscuit dough or mix


                                FILLING

  1 green onion, with stem, minced
  1 7-oz. can flaked tuna
  1 cup cottage cheese


                             MUSHROOM SAUCE

  1 4-oz. can mushrooms, with juice
  1 small onion
  2 tablespoons butter
  2 tablespoons flour
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper
  1½ cups milk

Make your favorite biscuit dough, or prepared mix. Combine onion, tuna,
cottage cheese. Roll dough ¼ inch thick, spread with tuna mixture; roll
as for jelly roll. Cut in ½ inch slices; place 1 inch apart on greased
cookie sheet. Bake 20-25 minutes at 250° F. Sauce: Chop mushrooms and
onion; saute in butter. Shake flour and seasonings in small jar with
mushroom juice. Add to mushroom and onion; blend in milk. Stir
constantly over low heat until thickened. Pour over pinwheels, allowing
2 per serving. Serves 6.


                _Cottage Cheese and Egg Plant Casserole_

  1 egg plant
  1 cup cottage cheese (dry)
  3 slices bread
  ½ onion, sliced
  1 green pepper, chopped
  1 whole pimiento, chopped
  pepper and marjoram
  1 egg
  2 tablespoons butter
  Paprika
  ½ teaspoon salt

Peel the egg plant and cube. Put in a sauce pan with ½ cup water and
cook covered for 15 minutes. Add unbeaten egg and 2 slices bread,
flaked. Stir in cottage cheese, onion and seasoning. Pour into buttered
casserole. Flake 1 slice bread over top, dot with butter, and sprinkle
with paprika. Bake in 350° F. oven for 45 minutes. Serves 4-6.


                          _Macaroni Romanoff_

Two kinds of cheese, cottage and a sharp Cheddar type, give this
macaroni dish unexpected flavor. It is complete enough for the main part
of a meal, a recipe that you will use frequently.

  3 cups cooked macaroni
  1 cup cottage cheese
  1 cup sour cream
  ¼ cup chopped onions
  1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  ½ teaspoon salt
  4 drops Tabasco sauce
  2 tablespoons chopped parsley
  ¼ cup grated Cheddar-type cheese

Combine all ingredients except grated cheese. Place in greased
casserole. Sprinkle with cheese. Bake in a moderate oven (350° F.) about
40 minutes. Serves 4 to 6.


                           _Tuna-Cheese Bake_

  2 cups cottage cheese
  1 can tuna (7 oz.)
  ½ cup dry bread crumbs
  2 eggs, beaten
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon pepper
  ¾ teaspoon celery salt
  Dash of steak sauce
  2 tablespoons butter

Combine cheese, tuna, ¼ cup bread crumbs, and seasonings. Blend into
beaten eggs. Place in oiled casserole (1 quart). Sprinkle with remaining
crumbs, buttered. Set in pan of hot water; bake in moderate oven (375°
F.) about 30 minutes or until mixture is firm. Serves 4.


                         _Cottage Cheese Puffs_

  1 cup sieved cottage cheese
  1 cup dry bread crumbs
  ¾ teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon onion salt
  1 teaspoon chopped parsley
  ½ cup chopped peanuts
  1 egg, beaten

Combine cottage cheese, ¾ cup bread crumbs, salt, onion salt, parsley
and peanuts with beaten egg; mix well. Shape into patties; roll in
remaining bread crumbs. Bake in greased muffin tins in hot oven (400°
F.) 10 minutes. Served with spicy Spanish sauce.


                           _Cottage Timbales_

  1½ cups cottage cheese
  1½ cups cooked rice or fine noodles
  1 cup finely diced or chopped cooked meat
  1 tablespoon chopped green pepper
  1 teaspoon minced onion
  ¾ teaspoon salt
  ¼ cup milk
  3 eggs, slightly beaten
  1¼ cups tomato juice
  2 tablespoons butter
  2 tablespoons flour
  ½ teaspoon sugar
  Salt and pepper to taste

Combine cottage cheese, rice or cooked noodles, meat, green pepper,
onion, salt, milk and eggs and blend. Fill well oiled custard cups with
the mixture and set in a shallow pan of water. Bake in a 350° F. oven
for about 45 minutes, or until a knife inserted in the center comes out
clean. Unmold and serve with tomato sauce.


                                 SAUCE

Melt butter in a small saucepan, add flour and blend. Add tomato juice
and cook and stir until smooth and thickened. Season with sugar, salt
and pepper. Serve over cottage timbales. Serves 6.


                        _Cottage Cheese Rarebit_

  4 tablespoons butter
  2 tablespoons flour
  ½ teaspoon dry mustard
  2 cups buttermilk
  Salt and pepper to taste
  Dash of cayenne
  ½ cup cottage cheese

Melt the butter in a saucepan. Add flour and mustard, blending well.
Then slowly stir in the buttermilk. Cook slowly for about three minutes,
then add the cottage cheese and other seasonings. One hard-boiled egg,
chopped fine, may also be added. Serve on hot buttered toast.


                        _Cottage Cheese Souffle_

  1 cup cottage cheese
  ¼ cup buttermilk
  1 cup soft bread crumbs
  3 eggs
  4 tablespoons butter
  3 tablespoons flour
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon baking soda
  Dash of cayenne

Melt butter in skillet, add flour, salt and cayenne. Mix thoroughly, add
all the buttermilk at once and stir until smooth. Then add the cottage
cheese, soda and bread crumbs. Beat the eggs until light and fluffy and
add to the cheese mixture. Pour into a well-greased baking dish, and
bake for about 30 minutes at 350° F. Serve at once with a hot cheese
sauce, made by adding snappy American or Cheddar cheese to a medium
white sauce.


                        _Cheese-Stuffed Onions_

  6 medium onions
  ¾ cup cottage cheese
  2 tablespoons finely chopped green pepper
  3 slices bacon cut in strips and fried crisp
  1 teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper
  ¼ cup buttered bread crumbs
  4 strips pimiento

Peel onions and cook in boiling salted water until just tender (about 20
minutes). Drain and cool. Remove centers, leaving a thin shell. Chop ½
cup of centers coarsely. Combine with cottage cheese, green pepper,
bacon, salt, and pepper. Mix well. Stuff onion shells and place in
greased baking dish. Garnish with bread crumbs and pimiento. Pour 1
teaspoon bacon drippings over each onion. Cover and bake in moderate
oven (350° F.) for 20 minutes. Uncover and brown 10-15 minutes. Serves
6.


                          _Sweet Potato Cups_

  2 pounds large sweet potatoes
  3 large oranges
  1 cup cottage cheese
  ¼ teaspoon ginger
  1 teaspoon salt

Boil potatoes. Peel and mash thoroughly. Cut oranges in halves, remove
pulp, discard white pith and membrane. Combine orange segments and juice
with ginger, cottage cheese, mashed sweet potatoes. Fill orange shells.
Broil in slow oven (350° F.) until glazed. Serve immediately.
Sensational with buffet ham. Serves 6.


                        _Cottage Cheese Omelet_

  4 eggs, separated
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper
  ¼ cup milk
  ¾ cup cottage cheese
  3 tablespoons chopped canned pimiento
  1 tablespoon butter
  2 tablespoons chopped parsley

Beat egg yolks until thick; add salt, pepper, milk, cheese and pimiento.
Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Place butter in skillet, heat well
and add omelet. Cook slowly until firm and browned on bottom. Bake in
moderate oven (350° F.) 10 to 15 minutes or until browned on top.
Crease, fold, slip onto hot platter and garnish with parsley. Serves 6.


                         _Cottage Creamed Eggs_

  3 tablespoons butter
  3 tablespoons flour
  Salt and pepper to taste
  1 cup milk
  ½ teaspoon minced pimiento
  ¼ teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  2 hard cooked eggs, sliced
  1 cup cottage cheese

Melt butter. Blend in flour, salt, pepper. Gradually stir in milk; cook
until thick and smooth, stirring constantly. Season with pimiento and
Worcestershire. Add sliced eggs and cottage cheese. Heat. Serve on
buttered toast.


                  _Baked Potatoes With Cottage Cheese_

Halve large baked potatoes. Scoop out centers. Mash thoroughly. For 6,
combine 2 cups cottage cheese and one egg. Mix with potatoes. Season.
Refill shells. Dust with paprika: Return to hot oven. Bake until brown
on top.


                    _Mashed Potato and Cheese Puff_

Mash potato thoroughly with desired milk and seasoning. Blend about 1
part cottage cheese to 4 parts potato. Place in casserole, dust with
paprika and brown in oven. Add chopped parsley as garnish, before
serving.


                           _For Taste Appeal_

For a crusty brown topping on oven dishes, spread them generously with
cottage cheese; sprinkle with bread crumbs, and bake.

Use cottage cheese as a topping for one-crust berry pies.

Add approximately ½ cup cottage cheese to scrambled eggs to extend
flavor and quantity. Cook over low heat.

Spread cottage cheese on thin French pancakes, roll up, and fry lightly;
and serve with sour cream and jam, or sugar and cinnamon.




                               _Desserts_


                        _Cheese Custard Pudding_

  2 cups cottage cheese
  4 eggs, beaten slightly
  1 quart milk, scalded
  3 tablespoons flour
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ cup sugar
  1 teaspoon vanilla extract
  ¼ teaspoon almond extract

Put cottage cheese through a sieve. Beat eggs together slightly; add
scalded milk, stirring to blend. Mix dry ingredients; add sieved cottage
cheese. Gradually stir in milk-egg mixture; add vanilla and almond
extract. Pour into a well-buttered 8-inch glass baking dish. Place in a
pan of hot water and bake in a moderate oven (325° F.) for 1½ hours or
until a knife inserted in the center comes out clean; let cool. Serves 6
to 8.


                     _Lemon-Cottage Cheese Custard_

  ½ cup melba toast crumbs, rolled and sifted
  1 cup sugar
  ¼ cup butter, melted
  2 egg yolks
  Juice of 1 lemon
  Rind of 1 lemon, grated
  ¼ teaspoon mace
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  2 cups cottage cheese
  3 tablespoons flour
  ½ cup milk
  ½ cup whipping cream
  2 egg whites
  ⅓ cup nut meats, chopped

Combine crumbs, ½ cup sugar, and butter; line buttered baking dish. Beat
egg yolks with remaining sugar, add lemon juice and rind, mace and salt,
then cottage cheese and flour blended with milk. Mix all thoroughly and
sieve. Add whipped cream and stiffly beaten egg whites. Mix lightly and
pour into crumb-lined baking dish, sprinkle with nut meats. Set in pan
of hot water and bake in a moderate oven (325° to 350° F.) 1 hour. Serve
cold with whipped cream or crushed strawberries. Serves 8.


                    _Spiced Cottage Cheese Cookies_

In these refrigerator cookies the cheese provides the liquid content.

  ½ cup shortening
  ½ cup sugar, brown or granulated
  1 egg
  1¾ cup sifted all-purpose flour
  ½ teaspoon soda
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon cinnamon
  ¼ teaspoon each nutmeg and cloves
  ⅓ cup cottage cheese, sieved

Cream shortening and sugar together; beat in egg. Sift flour with soda,
salt, and spices into bowl; add cottage cheese. Stir together to make a
stiff dough. Form into roll; wrap in waxed paper and chill well in the
refrigerator. Slice thin, and bake in a moderate oven (375° F.) 10
minutes or until lightly browned. Makes about 2½ dozen cookies.


                       _Cottage Cheese Cup Cakes_

  ½ cup butter
  2 cups brown sugar, firmly packed
  Grated rind of 1 lemon
  1 egg
  2 cups sifted cake flour
  1 teaspoon salt
  1 cup chopped raisins
  2 cups creamed cottage cheese (or 2 cups dry cottage cheese plus 3
              tablespoons milk)
  ½ teaspoon soda

Cream butter and one cup of the brown sugar until light and fluffy. Add
lemon rind and egg and beat well. Add cottage cheese and second cup of
brown sugar and mix thoroughly. Sift flour once, measure, and resift
with the dry ingredients. Blend with cottage cheese mixture. Fold in
raisins. Bake in greased muffin pans at 350° F., for 30 minutes, or
until done. Serve warm. Makes about 2 dozen cupcakes.


                         _Unbaked Cheese Cake_


                                FILLING

  2 tablespoons unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  4 eggs, separated
  1 cup table cream
  ¾ cup sugar
  2 cups cottage cheese, sieved
  ½ teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  Juice of 2 lemons
  Grated peel of 1 lemon
  ½ cup heavy cream, whipped


                                 CRUST

  2 cups graham cracker or zweiback crumbs
  ½ cup melted butter
  ¼ cup confectioner’s sugar

Soften gelatin in water for 5 minutes. In the top of the double boiler
beat egg yolks slightly; stir in softened gelatin, table cream, and
sugar. Place over boiling water and cook, stirring constantly, until the
mixture coats a spoon. Remove from heat; stir in cottage cheese, salt,
vanilla, lemon juice, and peel. Cool. Fold in cream. While filling is
cooling, combine ingredients for crust; take out ⅓ of mixture and set
aside. Use remainder of crumbs to line bottom and sides of a spring mold
or deep 9-inch layer cake pan. Pour filling into pan. Sprinkle remaining
crumbs on top. Chill several hours before serving.


                         _Cottage Cheese Cake_

  2 cups fine melba toast crumbs
  1½ cups sugar
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  ½ cup melted butter
  6 eggs
  1½ tablespoons lemon juice
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ cup coffee cream
  3 cups cottage cheese sieved
  ¼ cup flour
  2 teaspoons grated lemon rind
  ¼ cup chopped nuts
  1 teaspoon vanilla

Combine crumbs with ½ cup sugar, cinnamon, and butter. Reserve ¾ cup of
mixture for top and press balance into bottom of a 9-inch pie pan. Beat
eggs and add sugar gradually. Add lemon juice, salt, cream, cheese and
flour. Mix well. Add rind. Pour into pie tin and sprinkle with reserve
crumbs. Bake 1 hour in moderate oven (350° F.). Chill and remove from
pan.


                           _Fruit Cheese Pie_

  1 unbaked 9-inch pastry shell
  1½ cups thinly sliced raw apples
  2 eggs
  ¾ cup cottage cheese
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ cup cream
  ½ teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
  3 tablespoons sugar
  ½ teaspoon cinnamon
  Dash of nutmeg

Line a pie pan with pastry and cover the bottom with the sliced apples.
Beat the eggs slightly, add the cottage cheese, ½ cup of sugar, cream,
salt and lemon rind. Mix 3 tablespoons of sugar with the cinnamon and
nutmeg, sprinkle this over the apples, then cover them with the cottage
cheese mixture. Bake in a moderately hot oven (425° F.) 10 minutes;
reduce the heat to a moderate oven (350° F.) and bake 30 minutes longer.


                       Raisin-Cottage Cheese Pie

  1 pound cottage cheese
  ⅓ cup sugar
  ¼ cup milk
  3 eggs, beaten
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ cup chopped raisins or dates
  Rind and juice of 1 lemon
  1 teaspoon melted butter
  ½ recipe pastry

Press cheese through a fine sieve. Add next 7 ingredients and stir until
well mixed. Line a deep pie pan with pastry and bake in hot oven (450°
F.) until crust is very light brown. Fill with cheese mixture and
continue baking in moderate oven (350° F.) until filling is firm, 15 to
20 minutes. Makes 1 (9-inch) pie.


                              _Melody Pie_


                           LEMON PASTRY SHELL

  1 cup sifted flour
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ¼ cup shortening
  ½ teaspoon grated lemon rind
  1½ tablespoons lemon juice
  1 tablespoon ice water
  2 teaspoons beaten egg yolk

Sift together flour and salt. Cut in shortening and lemon rind. Beat
together lemon juice, water and egg yolk. Stir lightly into flour
mixture. Form into ball; wrap in waxed paper and chill. Roll out dough
and line 9-inch pie plate. Prick well; bake 10 to 15 minutes in
moderately hot oven (425° F.).


                                FILLING

Line shell with 1 pint creamed cottage cheese, mixed with 1 tablespoon
grated lemon rind. Fill with 1 No. 2½ can fruit cocktail, chilled and
drained. Garnish with mint. Serves 8.


                            _Buttermilk Pie_

  2 eggs
  ½ cup melted butter
  2 tablespoons flour
  1 cup sugar
  2 teaspoons vanilla
  2 teaspoons lemon juice, or 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
  1½ cups buttermilk
  ½ pound cottage cheese
  Pastry

Beat egg yolks slightly; add butter, and beat until thoroughly blended.
Beat in flour, ½ cup sugar, vanilla, lemon juice, buttermilk, and
cottage cheese that has been pressed through a sieve. Beat egg whites,
add ½ cup sugar gradually, and beat until stiff; fold into mixture. Pour
into 9-inch pie pan lined with pastry; bake in a hot oven (450° F.) for
15 minutes, then lower temperature to slow (300° F.) and continue baking
40 minutes, or until set. Chill before serving. Note: there’s an
abundance of filling here so you should roll out the pastry until the
circle is about 4 inches larger than the top diameter of the pie plate.
Fit the pastry into the pan, then trim with shears, leaving a 1½ inch
overhanging border. Fold this border up and make an upright double-fold
rim; flute with fingers.


                             _Cheese Bowl_

  ¾ cup sieved cottage cheese
  ¼ pound Roquefort cheese, sieved
  1 tablespoon sour cream
  Few drops Worcestershire Sauce
  Crackers
  Fruit

Mix cottage cheese, Roquefort cheese and sour cream just enough to
blend. Add Worcestershire sauce to taste. Serve in bowl. Six servings.
Mellow cheese served with tart fruit and crackers makes an elegant
dessert.


    For additional copies of this booklet mail 15c coin or stamps to

                        MILK INDUSTRY FOUNDATION
                            1625 Eye Street
                          Washington 6, D. C.

    [Illustration: MILK INDUSTRY FOUNDATION]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COTTAGE CHEESE RECIPE BOOK ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


